Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to talk about how do you control how much jargon you use in your everyday
communications with clients and what's the optimal level of confusing language.
Now if you don't know what I mean by jargon jargon just means technical words.
And if you're in development you're using technical words all the time and clients probably won't understand
90 percent of it.
Now the standard advice from people who run development businesses is that you minimize your jargon
as much as possible.
Right.
Because you're more interested in communicating effectively to your client.
Personally I think that that's incredibly simplistic view of it.
There's a lot more that goes into this and I think a more nuanced approach is necessary.
So let's be obvious.
You don't want to have too much jargon if you have too much jargon.
It just confuses your client.
It limits how well you can actually communicate something to them and most importantly it makes you
look like a poor communicator because surely someone who works with clients on a day to day basis knows
that they shouldn't have to speak in really jargon sized language the way you speak to a developer or
even the way you speak to a designer.
It should be entirely different than the way you speak to a client only in situations where your client
is as technical as they are.
Then you have the option to speak to them with lots of jargon.
But even in those cases I always find that it's not actually the most effective way now two little jargon
which is what a lot of people out there just don't realize also has negative effects too little jargon
makes it sound like you're not an expert at what you're talking about.
It also makes it sound like the project is really simple and kind of the immediate reaction early subconsciously
from your client is this is really simple why am I paying so much.
I think there's also a likelihood that if you speak to simply they also feel as if your position or
your role in this communication chain is unnecessary.
So there's obviously a happy middle in between using tons and tons of code language is really specific
details that are completely unnecessary and the other end where you basically turn everything into overly
simplified language that doesn't use anything remotely technical and just sounds incredibly vague.
Now what I've found to be effective and what I propose you do is that you use a kind of medium amount
of jargon use words and kind of code names of things that are more common.
While leaving out things that are less common when describing an action typically focus on using a simpler
verb when you describe what's happening because they only understand the actual action.
But then when explaining objects or technologies or platforms use the specific language.
Now the reason why I'd suggest inserting some a medium amount of jargon is because it sets the tone
and it makes you sound like you are a domain expert.
It makes it sound as if you know something that they don't know and it reassures them.
This is complicated and this is why I hired you.
OK.
Let's set up a scenario so you can get kind of the gist of what I'm talking about.
Let's say you built a site or an app and you built it deployed it.
And users are going to that page and every time they try to save information they're getting a big error
screen.
So something is clearly wrong and your client comes running to you to say that the sky is falling and
something something's wrong.
So how do you explain it to them.
Here's an example of an explanation that's too simplified the site's ability to save isn't working and
the information isn't going anywhere.
That's creating some issues on your site.
OK.
Now if you read that in text it doesn't actually really say anything.
I mean and most clients whether or not they're aware of it they know what's happening if you're trying
to save something in an error message comes up surely they know that it's the biggest point those who
set it like that you kind of sound like an idiot.
You generally want to avoid sounding like you're babying the client the babying that you do to your
client should be subtle and it should be on things that they don't even notice.
You'd actually be surprised clients liked to feel like they understand the jargon you use they'd like
to feel like they're in a technical conversation.
It makes them feel like they're kind of on the ground level.
So I always propose using a little bit more.
So this is an example again of a way to simplify.
So here's an example of an overly complex and overly jargon fied answer.
Your app instance is experiencing server lock and it can't authenticate with its connection.
Your users are getting thrown a javascript exception that might indicate that the build is incorrectly
set up on a actually.
OK.
Now let that sink in.
What did I just say.
I honestly I barely know what that means.
When you give an answer towards something's not working they kind of want to understand it in much simpler
terms and that the actual true to the definition to the T answer is very rarely helpful.
Make sure that you're not introducing concepts they've never heard of.
And more importantly never realistically could have heard now explain the name of a database.
That's common.
They can understand that that's helpful but explaining server lock and then going and saying that it
needs to authenticate its connection that's not necessary.
You don't need to say the phenomenon that's happening and you don't even need to say that it's a problem
with the authentication and not just the connection.
That's almost too much detail and it's completely missed when you explain it to them.
Use your users getting thrown a javascript exception.
Exceptions are a programming term.
You could just say is it error.
It doesn't.
I mean it's not technically correct but that's something they can understand and that's basically the
same thing again.
And the last thing you don't really need to call it a build.
That's not something that someone immediately knows you can just refer to the site.
You also don't need to see that it's incorrectly set up somewhere just say that it's it's not working
on this or it's not working on your server you don't need to explain the technology that runs it on
the server.
Ok so here is the ideal kind of response with concerns to how confusing and how jargon to fight it is
your siecle database is experiencing a common issue where if too much traffic hits it at the same time
it'll actually close its connections in the database.
This is common to the specific platform that we built your Web site on the error that you're seeing.
It's just the system's way of letting us know that none of that information is actually getting saved.
See that's right in the middle.
There's a couple of things you might have glossed over because you didn't know what it was but for the
most part I gave you a decent amount of detail but not so much detail that you actually get confused
and at the same time I didn't just kind of baby speak it or dumb it down so much that what I said doesn't
actually have any meaning.
OK so try to find a happy medium with jargon.
Personally I like using a little bit of jargon because it makes me sound like a domain expert and it
kind of sets the tone for the relationship.
It kind of divides between the person who is purchasing the software and the person who actually knows
how it works and what it takes to deliver it.
In my experience when you do that you'll notice that you get a little bit more respect.
They're more likely to trust you the more likely to believe you when you say an issue is hard.
But if you dumb it down too much or you make it too complicated they might just not understand what
the issue is.
Think it's too simple or just think that you're a very poor communicator.
OK guys so try to keep it level when you go with jargon don't go crazy with it.
And honestly at the very beginning you might not even know the jargon so try to learn a little bit so
that you can kind of pepper in your speech.
All right guys see in the next hour.